# Machine-Learning-Based-Sentimental-Analysis-On-The-Outbreak-Of-COVID
Explore sentiment patterns related to the COVID-19 outbreak using this GitHub repository. This machine learning model, trained on Twitter data, classifies tweets into positive, negative, or neutral sentiments, achieving an impressive 87% accuracy. Gain insights into public sentiment during the pandemic.
The world can never be the same after Covid 19. Masks, sanitizers, quarantine, all of these marked the new normal. With the rules of quarantine imposed on the public, usage and popularization of the internet paced up rapidly. People turned to online platforms to communicate and share their opinions with the world. Twitter is a platform where people irrespective of their age, gender, religion, creed can voice their opinions openly. Hence, sentiment analysis of tweets shared by people online is one of the best ways to understand, analyze and draw conclusions from the public spectacle.
To implement this model, we have used the datasets from Kaggle. The training dataset consists of 51989 tweets and the testing dataset consists of 12998 tweets. There are 3 sentiments namely ‘Positive’, ‘Negative’ and ‘Neutral’. We have used a machine learning approach to classify the opinion. Natural language processing is the preparation of text used in sentiment analysis (NLP). Data preprocessing, tokenization, lemmatization, and stemming are all part of it. We have used five different classifiers and found that the Random Forest algorithm gives the highest accuracy of 88.5%. And that the sentiments of the public regarding covid 19 are in the order neutral, positive and negative respectively.  
